---
title: "Open positions in the CBIO lab"
tags: ["job"]
comments: false
---

There are a couple of opportunities to join the CBIO lab in 2022.

## Applied multi-omics integration

The [HYGIEIA project](https://www.saintluc.be/fr/hygieia) is a large
collaboration on the biomedical campus in Brussels. The PIs on the
project are Prof [Laure
Elens](https://uclouvain.be/en/directories/laure.elens) from the
[Louvain Drug Research Institute
(LDRI)](https://uclouvain.be/en/research-institutes/ldri), Prof
[Jean-Luc
Balligand](https://uclouvain.be/en/research-institutes/irec/fath/jean-luc-balligand.html)
from the [Institute of Clinical and Experimental Research
(IREC)](https://uclouvain.be/en/research-institutes/irec), myself from
the [de Duve
Institute](https://www.deduveinstitute.be/computational-biology), Prof
Jean Cyr Yombi and Prof Leïla Belkhir, both clinicians at the
infectious disease department at the [university
hospital](https://www.saintluc.be/fr/medecine-interne) and Prof
[Sébastien Jodogne](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jodogne/) from the
[Louvain Engineering School
(EPL)](https://uclouvain.be/en/faculties/epl). The goal is to
implement a complete multi-omics [network systems
medicine](https://wires.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/wsbm.1489)
facilty, from patient samples, sample tracking, data production,
analysis and interpretation. The data production is handled by our
local core facilities and include proteomics, metabolomics and
genomics. This applied project is both technically challenging and
exciting and provides a unique opportunity to build such a facility
from grounds up. There are two positions bound to my research group
here:

- A computer scientist position that will, in collaboration with
  Sébastian Jodoigne and the wet lab team, model and build the IT
  infrastructure to track patients, samples and data.

- A bioinformatics scientist to implement the multi-omics data
  processing and integration pipelines.

Both of these positions are initiallyt funded for 1 year, renewable
once, thanks to the 2.7M euros seed fund of the Sofina solidarity
fund. We are anticipating additional funding to extend these
positions.

## Spatial proteomics and post-translational modifications

- As part of the Protein Contours project, I am also looking for an
  early career researcher focusing on spatial proteomics,
  post-translational modification and machine learning (see the
  [pRoloc](https://bioconductor.org/packages/pRoloc) package and
  [these](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24413670/)
  [papers](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006516)
  for some background). The Protein Contours project is funded by the
  [FWO](https://www.fwo.be/en/) and is in collaboration with [Win
  Vranken](https://we.vub.ac.be/en/wim-vranken) from the VUB and
  [Lennart Martens](https://www.compomics.com/people/lennart-martens/)
  from Gent University. The funding is for 1 to 2 years, depending on
  seniority. Depending on the candidate's goals and background, there
  exist opportunities to extend the funding beyond.

## What to expect

The [CBIO lab](https://lgatto.github.io/cbio-lab/) is hosted at the de
Duve Institue in Brussels since September 2018. The lab is fortunate
to have a dedicated and talented
[members](https://lgatto.github.io/cbio-who/) with diverse backgrounds
and skills: currently we have two master students with a bio-medical
background, one master student from engineering, three PhD students
(with backgrounds in biotechnology, engineering and stats, and
biomedical research and bioinformatics) and two post-doctoral
researchers (with PhD in biomedical sciences and statistics). The lab
also hosts the bioinformatics core facility.

We tackle a wide range of omics data and applications, either through
collaborations with researchers or generating our own data, and put a
lot of emphasis on scientific software engineering, notably through
the [Bioconductor](http://bioconductor.org/) project. Open and
reproducible research is central in the lab: all software are publicly
available under permissive licenses, all our publications are
published as pre-prints, and we work hard to make our efforts
reproducible.

The lab supports a friendly and supportive work environment through
flexible working hours (for example for your young parents) and the
possibility for remote work. The lab meetings are scheduled in-person
(or mixed remote/in-person if anyone can't join) to favour
interactions among lab members.

## Interested in applying?

All positions are open PhD or MSc (depending on experience) in
computer science, bioinformatics or other relevant disciplines. Feel
free to contact me for further questions.

If you would like to apply, please send me a letter of motivation, a
CV with pre-prints and publications (if any), software and data
analysis projects and education, and the name and contact details of
two academic or professional references, explaining in what capacity
these references know you.

In your application, please make sure you highlight why you are keen
to apply for a specific post and how you are a good fit. For instance,
the HYGIEIA bioinformatics position requires experience in omics data
processing and pipeline automation - make sure you demonstrate such an
experience with example code and data. If referring to a paper or
pre-print, be explicit on you specific contributions and how these are
relevant for the position. I am just or even more interested in
reading some of your open source code rather that being pointed to a
handful of papers.
