---
title: "These shoes are made for running"
tags: ["Running"]
comments: false
---

I've reached my 7 years running anniversary. My first recorded run was
on the 10 February 2019, a decent 5 km run, starting from the
wonderful [Centre for Mathematical
Sciences](https://www.maths.cam.ac.uk/) and running along the West
Cambridge site. Since then, I have run on average 2000 km per year,
tallying over 12000 kms. This post is a tribute to the running shoes I
have been wearing since.

## First pair: Asics Cumulus (March 2016 - ?)

I remember entering the Running Up store in Cambridge and asking for a
beginner's pair of running shoes. I tried a couple of pairs that were
and, following the sales person advise (which I've had and heard on
multiple occasions), got those that felt comfortables, having no
measure of comparison.

![First pair of Asics Cumulus](/images/running_shoes_asics_cumulis_black_2016.jpg)

## Another Asics Cumulus (June 2016 - ?)

A couple of month later, I travelled to California for the yearly
Bioconductor and UseR conferences that co-localised in Stanford. Given
that I stayed there for about a week, I seized the opportunity to
register for a free Amazon.com prime account, order the same pair of
Ascis shoes and benefit from a free next-day delivery. The shoes were
actually a bit smaller than those bought in the UK despite identical
sizes. That stay in Stanford was very enjoyable, both on from
scientific and running point of view - the conferences were great and
I made the best from my proximity to the Stanford astronomy ... to
ramp up ... kms.

![Second pair of Asics Cumulus](/images/running_shoes_asics_cumulis_blue_2016.jpg)

Both Asics pairs were completely worn out and landed in the bin a long
time ago.

## A revelation: Altra Escalante (May 2018 - today)

As many, I read ...'s Born to Run book and became fascinated with the
... tribe and the idea of a more natural running form. I went back to
the Running Up store in Cambridge and asked for a minimal pair of
running shoes, with minimal or no drop. I remember that I was offered
at least two pairs, which I tested on the running mat. I was very
proud when sales person complimented my running form - despite the
(for my soon-to-become new standards) exagerated drop of the Asics
shoes, I had made an effort no to land towards the front of my feet. I
choose the black Altra Escalante, a brand I had never heard of, and it
was a revelation. I have stayed with Altra's *foot-shape* and
minimalistic format since then.

![Altra Escalante, a revelation](/images/running_shoes_esalante.jpg)

I still have my pair of Escalante. I haven't worn it for several years
but would certainly do so for a session on a running track.

## Altra Torin 1 (May 2019 - today)

The Escalante was a great pair of shoes but given that I was aiming
for ever increasing distances and off-the-road terrain, I wanted to
try something sturdier for trails and ultra-trails. I ran my first 50+
distance with that worn-out pair of Escalante and had suffered from
painful feet after the race. It was yet again at the Running Up store
that I found the Altra Torin shoes - I probably asked for Altra from
the start. This is also the pair that I wore when running my longest
distance so far, 80 km at the Brussels EcoTrail in September 2019.

![First pair of Altra Torin](/images/running_shoes_torin_black.jpg)

I still have my back Torin shoes at work and use them whenever I go
out for a work lunch-time run.

## Altra Torin 2 (May 2020 - July 2021)

Given that I was running mostly in the forest and fields, I decided to
go for another pair of Torin - why change when there's no reason
to. Given that I had left Cambridge, I got the next pair from the
Altra website. I still have that pair and use it occasionally.

![Second pair of Altra Torin](/images/running_shoes_torin_blue.jpg)

## Altra Torin 3 (July 2021 - January 2021)

I got my third pair of Torin on-line, again. It wasn't straight
forward though. The first attempt at the Altra website failed, as they
mistakenly sent a pair of Escalante. I did like my first pair, but
needed something a bit sturdier and had to send them back. Altra was
apparently out of stock with Torin and I ended up getting them
somewhere else. Unfortunately, I wasn't too impressed this time. As
you can see from the dates above, this pair didn't last very long in
time, and even less compared to the other ones in kms. The inner sole
was completely worn of at several places and the shoe tore at the
outside along the sole rather quickly compared to its
predecessors. The pair ended up in the bin in January 2021. I am also
planning an ultra-trail in the Swiss mountains in the summer and thus
thought I might try another pair with this in mind.


![Third pair of Altra Torin](/images/running_shoes_torin_grey.jpg)

## Altra Lone peak (February 2022)

In January 2022, I ordered a pair of Lone Peak online (I really miss
the Running Up shop in Cambridge). They don't feel as comfy as the
Torin and probably also have a thinner outer sole, probably closer to
the Escalante (I remember having the opposite impression when running
with my first Torin). I must admit that I don't follow all the jargon
that is advertised on the vendors websites (the only one that sticks
is *drop* because I wanted to try a *zero drop* in May 2018), so my
impressions here might not match the advertised metrics. Anyway, I'll
need to wait a bit more to know if they are as good as the previous
pairs I used.

![Altra Lone Peak, something new](/images/running_shoes_lone_peak_grey_2022.jpg)

It's only towards the end of the summer, after testing them over 1000+
kms and a couple of runs in the mountains, that I'll start thinking
about the my next pair.
